JUDY WOODRUFF: Good evening.
I'm Judy Woodruff.
Gwen Ifill is away this week.
On the "NewsHour" tonight:
Louisiana underwater.
At least six are dead and 20,000
rescued from
flooding, as ongoing rains
threaten more damage.
Also ahead: Hillary Clinton and
Donald Trump
sharpen their focus on key
battleground states,
as Trump's campaign chief is
alleged to have
accepted secret cash payments
from pro-Russian
Ukraine.
And Syria's hospitals become
killing grounds,
as airstrikes target the few
medical facilities
left in that ravaged country.
WIDNEY BROWN, Director of
Programs, Physicians
for Human Rights: When you
target a hospital,
you don't just destroy that
brick-and-mortar
structure.
You destroy actually a safe
place that people
can go for lifesaving aid.
JUDY WOODRUFF: All that and more
on tonight's
"PBS NewsHour."
(BREAK)
JUDY WOODRUFF: Swathes of
Southern Louisiana
are still underwater after a
weekend of historic
flooding.
At least six people died and
thousands have
had to leave their homes.
As far as the eye could see,
there was water.
The rising floodwaters took many
in Louisiana
by surprise.
Whole neighborhoods were
submerged, and more
than 20,000 people were forced
to evacuate.
By today, many had managed to
make it to makeshift
shelters on higher ground.
TORINA HEBERT, Flood Victim: My
house was
underwater.
I have three children.
My sister lives in the Sherwood
Forest area,
and she was on top of her roof.
And she has five children.
KATHRYN SAPPE, Flood Victim: It
was pretty
scary because we didn't know how
high the
waters were going to rise or how
fast they
were going to rise.
We just got out of there before
it was too
late.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Since Friday, the
state has
been battered by an onslaught of
torrential
rain.
In Baton Rouge and the
surrounding area, the
Amite River surged to more than
40s feet.
Lafayette and its suburbs were
inundated as
well.
Louisiana Governor John Bel
Edwards visited
Lafayette Parish today.
GOV.
JOHN BEL EDWARDS (D), Louisiana:
We're going
to transition into a recovery
phase as we
can here.
We're going to make every bit of
assistance
available to you as soon as we
possibly can.
That's my commitment as
governor.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Rescue operations
are still
under way, and crews worked all
weekend to
pull stranded victims from their
homes.
Others rescued trapped drivers
as water surged
into their cars.
It's unclear when evacuees will
be allowed
to go home.
More than 10,000 people are
being housed in
local shelters.
Others are relying on the
kindness of their
neighbors.
WOMAN: They are the most kind,
amazing people
ever.
I owe them so much.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Louisiana's
insurance commissioner
estimates 75 percent of those
affected by
the flooding do not have flood
insurance.
Turning to the campaign for the
White house,
the candidates showed up in
hard-fought states,
where the race is closest,
focusing on national
security, while slamming shots
at each other.
Lisa Desjardins reports.
LISA DESJARDINS: To the campaign
battleground
of Youngstown, Ohio, Donald
Trump brought
his outline of a more protective
America,
generally less involved
overseas, but more
focused on fighting the Islamic
State.
DONALD TRUMP (R), Presidential
Candidate:
If I become president, the era
of nation-building
will be brought to a very swift
and decisive
end.
(CHEERING AND APPLAUSE)
LISA DESJARDINS: The Republican
nominee outlined
three broad points.
He would hold joint military
operations with
any country fighting ISIS.
The campaign confirmed that
could include
current U.S. adversary and
Syrian leader Bashar
al-Assad.
He would ask law enforcement
here to find
new ways to I.D. radicals.
And he would freeze immigration
from regions
where background checks are too
difficult,
while adding a new test.
DONALD TRUMP: The time is
overdue to develop
new screening test for the
threats we face
today.
I call it extreme vetting.
I call it extreme, extreme
vetting.
Our country has enough problems.
We don't need more.
And these are problems like we
have never
had before.
(CHEERING AND APPLAUSE)
LISA DESJARDINS: Hillary
Clinton's campaign
responded before the speech with
this ad attacking
Trump's national security
credentials with
his own words.
DONALD TRUMP: Putin did call me
a genius.
GEN.
BARRY MCCAFFREY (RET.), U.S.
Army: His comments
are impulsive.
They're unsettling.
LISA DESJARDINS: The anti-Trump
theme dominated,
as Clinton took the stage in
Scranton, Pennsylvania,
with native son and Vice
President Joe Biden.
JOSEPH BIDEN, Vice President of
the United
States: I was proud.
My son Beau served for a year in
Iraq, came
back highly decorated soldier.
(APPLAUSE)
JOSEPH BIDEN: I must tell you, I
must tell
you, had Donald Trump been
president, I would
have thrown my body in front of
him.
No, I really mean it, to keep
him from going,
if the judgment was based on
Trump's decision.
LISA DESJARDINS: Clinton
repeated her attack
on Trump's preparedness.
HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (D),
Presidential Candidate:
Sometimes, he says won't tell
anyone what
he will do because he wants to
keep his plan
-- quote -- "secret."
(LAUGHTER)
HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON: And then
it turns
out secret is, he has no plan.
(CHEERING AND APPLAUSE)
HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON: And that
was very
clear when he said, "I know more
about ISIS
than the generals."
No, no, Donald, you don't.
LISA DESJARDINS: For weeks, both
candidates
have insisted the other is not
fit to be president.
With 85 days until the Election
Day, that
question is dominating the
campaign trail.
For the "PBS NewsHour," I'm Lisa
Desjardins.
JUDY WOODRUFF: In the day's
other news: An
18-year-old was shot and
seriously injured
after a second night of protests
in a Milwaukee
neighborhood.
It followed the fatal police
shooting of Sylville
Smith, a black man authorities
say was carrying
a stolen handgun.
Dozens of officers clashed with
protesters
overnight, and four sheriff's
deputies were
wounded.
Milwaukee's mayor blamed
outsiders for the
unrest, and called for calm.
TOM BARRETT, Mayor of Milwaukee:
We have issues
in this city.
We know there are issues.
There's too much poverty, there
are housing
issues, there are public safety
issues, there
are education issues.
None of those issues get
addressed if your
intent is to inflict property or
personal
damage in this great
neighborhood.
JUDY WOODRUFF: No major property
damage was
reported last night, unlike the
previous night,
when six businesses were
torched.
Officials also said they will
now strictly
enforce the city's 10:00 p.m.
curfew for teenagers.
In Nepal, 33 people are dead
after their bus
plunged off a mountain road,
careening almost
a hundred feet down a hillside.
The bus had departed from
Kathmandu, and crashed
about 50 miles east of the
capital city.
At least 28 more people were
injured, some
critically.
Victims were airlifted back to
hospitals in
Kathmandu.
An airstrike sent a Doctors
Without Borders
hospital in Northern Yemen today
-- the exact
death toll wasn't immediately
clear, but Yemeni
officials said there were some
20 casualties
among hospital patients and
staff.
A Saudi Arabian-led coalition
has been bombing
rebel targets in the country for
more than
a year.
Back in the U.S., a wildfire
spanning more
than six square miles is burning
out of control
north of San Francisco.
More than 4,000 people in and
around the rural
town of Lower Lake have been
forced to evacuate.
The fire first broke out
Saturday, and has
since destroyed at least 175
structures.
It's one of 11 major fires
burning across
California right now.
Major hotel chains in 10 states
and the District
of Columbia have been hit by
hackers.
Malware was installed on the
payment processing
systems of 20 different Hyatt,
Sheraton, Marriott,
and Westin properties as far
back as March
of 2015.
The company that manages the
hotels insists
the security breach has been
contained.
There's no immediate word how
many customers
were affected.
A banner day on Wall Street: All
three major
stock indexes closed at record
highs, driven
in part by gains in the chemical
and the mining
sectors.
The Dow Jones industrial average
climbed more
than 59 points to close at
18636.
The Nasdaq rose 29 points, and
the S&P 500
added six.
And at the Summer Olympic Games,
U.S. gymnast
Laurie Hernandez won silver in
the balance
beam finals.
Her teammate Simone Biles added
a bronze medal
to her collection of golds,
after a rare stumble
on the beam.
Meanwhile, on the track, Emma
Coburn became
the first American woman to ever
medal in
the 3,000-meter steeplechase,
taking the bronze.
Still to come on the "NewsHour":
new revelations
tying Donald Trump's campaign
chair to Ukraine's
pro-Russian party; on Politics
Monday, Hillary
Clinton's edge in key swing
states; doctors
desperately trying to save lives
amid Syrian
airstrikes; and much more.
desperately trying to save lives
amid Syrian
airstrikes; and much more.
And how political unrest in
Ukraine has made
its way into the race for
president of the
United States.
Before becoming Donald Trump's
campaign manager,
Paul Manafort consulted for
Viktor Yanukovych,
the former Ukrainian president
who fled to
Russia in 2014 and later faced
charges in
the deaths of civilian
protesters.
Yanukovych's removal exposed a
political system
in Kiev rife with corruption.
Today, The New York Times
reports of a -- quote
-- "black ledger" that allegedly
links Manafort
to millions of dollars in secret
cash payments.
John Yang has the story.
JOHN YANG: The papers were
discovered by Ukraine's
newly formed National
Anti-Corruption Bureau.
In some 400 pages of handwritten
notes, Paul
Manafort's name appears 22 times
over the
course of five years, totaling
$12.7 million.
The New York Times' Moscow
correspondent,
Andrew Kramer, is one of the
reporters who
wrote the story, and he joins us
now from
Moscow.
Andrew, thanks for being with
us.
Andrew, first of all, tell us
exactly what
it was that they found.
What were these ledgers?
Where was the money coming from?
What were the payments for?
ANDREW KRAMER, The New York
Times: Those are
all very good questions.
Thank you.
The ledger is called in Ukraine
the black
ledger, and it's a collection of
papers, perhaps
400 pages, as you mentioned,
with handwritten
notes describing payments from
the Party of
Regions, which is a pro-Russian
political
party that Paul Manafort worked
for before
becoming manager of the
Republican campaign
this year in the United States.
The outlays described in this
ledger included
legitimate campaign expenses,
such as advertising,
travel for candidates, and also
illegal activities
under any definition, such as
payments to
the electoral commission of
Ukraine, members
of the electoral commission
receiving money
from this same fund.
According to the ledger, there
is also mention
of Paul Manafort.
So, at the same time, you have a
payment for
a campaign consultant, there are
outlays to
potentially illegal activities
like bribing.
Where the money came from, also
a very good
question.
I spoke with a senior member of
the Party
of Regions who described using
the system
before he left the party.
And he said that the money was,
in part, undocumented
campaign contributions to the
Party of Regions
and also money extorted from
business owners
in Ukraine by the party.
JOHN YANG: Why is this
significant?
Why is the fact that Manafort's
name is on
this ledger at this sum of $12.7
million,
why is this significant?
ANDREW KRAMER: Well, I think
it's significant
because the Trump campaign has
made Russia
an issue this year.
Mr. Trump has spoken favorably
of President
Vladimir Putin.
There was a hack of the
Democratic National
Committee e-mail system, which
has been blamed
by the U.S. security services on
Russia.
And many members of his campaign
staff have
experience in this part of the
world, most
notably Mr. Manafort.
This is why we spent time to
look into Mr.
Manafort's business dealings and
political
activities in Ukraine over the
past decade.
JOHN YANG: And remind us of
Viktor Yanukovych,
the former president of Ukraine,
who was one
of Manafort's clients, as well
as the party.
Remind us of who he is, what he
did and his
relationship with Vladimir
Putin.
ANDREW KRAMER: Certainly.
Mr. Yanukovych was prime
minister and then
president of Ukraine with a
generally pro-Russian
line to his politics, although
he did also
negotiate with the European
Union to join
a trade agreement, eventually,
instead of
choosing that agreement,
choosing the alternative
trade agreement with Russia,
which was the
cause of a large popular
uprising in Ukraine
in 2014 that led to his ouster.
Mr. Yanukovych fled to Russia,
where he's
still living.
JOHN YANG: And we should point
out that Mr.
Manafort said -- quote -- "The
suggestion
that I accepted cash payments is
unfounded,
silly and nonsensical."
He also included in his
statement that all
of his political payments are
all-inclusive.
They go for paying for staff,
for polling,
for research and advertising.
How does that jibe -- what he
said in his
statement, how does that jibe
with what the
anti-corruption unit found?
ANDREW KRAMER: The
anti-corruption found his
name mentioned in this ledger,
according to
a statement from the
Anti-Corruption Bureau.
They could not prove that he
actually received
the money, because they don't
know the signatures
beside these line items in the
ledger.
It's conceivable that somebody
else may have
taken this money, for example,
and deposited
it into a company that sent the
money to Mr.
Manafort.
This is clearly an
under-the-table payment
in any case.
And from what I understand of
his statement,
he doesn't dispute the sum
involved or that
he was paid for his work in
Ukraine, but,
rather, the nature of the
payment, that it
was an under-the-table payment.
JOHN YANG: And your story also
talked about
some of the other business
dealings that Paul
Manafort had in Ukraine and
their connections
with people connected to
Yanukovych.
ANDREW KRAMER: That's right.
Sometimes, it's said you can do
good while
doing well.
And while he was doing what was
said to be
a good deed of promoting
democracy in Ukraine,
he was also doing well.
The -- there -- several
opportunities open
for lucrative side deals during
his period
in Ukraine.
We examined one of them in
particular involving
the purchase of a cable
television station
in Southern Ukraine, in Odessa,
that was orchestrated
through a series of offshore
shell companies.
These same companies were used
by members
of the inner circle of the
Yanukovych government
to launder money obtained
through corrupt
means from Ukraine.
The indication is that Mr.
Manafort was doing
business with or intended to do
business with
this venal and corrupt group of
people who
led that country for about a
decade.
JOHN YANG: Andrew Kramer of The
New York Times,
thanks for joining us to talk
about your reporting.
ANDREW KRAMER: Thank you very
much.
JUDY WOODRUFF: And now for much
more on the
twists and turns of this
presidential race,
we turn to Politics Monday with
Tamara Keith
of NPR and Susan Page of USA
Today.
And welcome to you both.
Tam Keith, we have been
listening to this
report.
How significant is this?
TAMARA KEITH, National Public
Radio: It's
unclear that this is going to
dramatically
change anything for the Trump
campaign.
In some ways, the idea of some
connection
to Russia or something has long
existed, especially
around Paul Manafort, who has a
relatively
long career of working for not
just Yanukovych,
but other, you would say,
unsavory characters
or people who have fallen out of
political
favor with the U.S. government
over the decades.
JUDY WOODRUFF: And, Susan Page,
I mean, we
heard some pretty strong
language there from
The New York Times reporters
speaking about
venal corruption.
It's not a pretty picture.
SUSAN PAGE, Washington Bureau
Chief, USA Today:
You got 84 days until the
campaign, and every
day you spend talking about
anything except
Hillary Clinton's record or what
your own
vision of the country is, is a
day that's
lost.
In addition, I think this opens
the doors
to more queries about Donald
Trump's own financial
arrangements with interests in
Russia.
That's something that we have
heard something
about.
We don't have a lot of details.
We may learn more about that in
the next couple
of months.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Well, there was
another newspaper
today writing about Donald
Trump, Tamara Keith,
The Wall Street Journal
editorial page.
This is a consistently
conservative newspaper,
usually very strong language in
support of
conservative causes.
Today, they laid it on the line.
They said, Donald Trump, you
either get your
act together, in so many words,
by Labor Day,
which is three weeks from now,
or turn it
over to Mike Pence.
TAMARA KEITH: There is a lot of
frustration
that is expressed in this
editorial that I
hear a lot talking to
Republicans.
I talked to a Republican
pollster today.
Now, he worked for Marco Rubio,
but he told
me that expecting Donald Trump
to change is
like marrying someone and then
hoping they
will change later.
And, generally, he said, that
doesn't work
out very well.
I talked to another Republican
today who said,
well, that teleprompter speech
he gave about
foreign policy, that was solid.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Which he gave
today in Ohio.
TAMARA KEITH: Exactly.
He's done several of these
teleprompter speeches.
And what this Republican said
was, let's see
how long it lasts.
Let's see if he can stay on
message a day,
two days, seven days, two weeks.
And this person was calling for
cutting him
loose, for moving millions of
dollars to focus
on congressional races, and not
spend that
money on a presidential race.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Susan, is there
particular
weight, though, that this come
from The Wall
Street Journal editorial page?
SUSAN PAGE: It's one more sign
of the fracturing
of the traditional Republican
coalition.
It's the media side, the
editorial page side
that's been the strongest voice
for Republicanism
and especially conservatism in
the United
States.
And, in addition, you see the
foreign policy
establishment associated with
Republican presidents
breaking away.
You see senator after senator, a
half-dozen
Republican sitting senators,
saying they may
not vote for Donald Trump.
This is a party that is
imploding.
And it's a sign of a civil war
that we're
going to see when this election
is over.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Tamara, one of
the things that
the Journal editorial said was,
they basically
called the Trump campaign
incompetent.
How do the experts see the
campaign compared
to Hillary Clinton's effort?
TAMARA KEITH: Well, experts I
have spoken
to say that this is basically
campaign malpractice.
It's not a fully functioning
campaign, like
you would expect a campaign to
function, like
a campaign that would win would
function.
But Donald Trump doesn't want
that.
It's not like he necessarily
can't put it
together.
He doesn't want to put it
He over the weekend tweeted
repeatedly that
he's not changing, there is no
pivot.
People just want him to change,
but he's not
changing.
So, in some ways, it's kind of
like, you have
to listen to him.
He doesn't want to run ads.
He thinks he can do free media.
He's doing -- he's running this
the way he
wants it.
JUDY WOODRUFF: And, Susan, the
Trump campaign,
you ask them, and they say, yes,
we do have
an effort under way, we have a
plan, we have
a strategy.
SUSAN PAGE: So, they don't have
the historic
vision of a campaign that we're
all accustomed
to, but I will tell you one
number that I
think is of great concern to
Republicans.
And that is, since we started
with polling
in 1952, the candidate who is
ahead at this
point two weeks after the
conventions are
over, has invariably won the
popular vote.
So, you're getting to a point
where the election
starts to get cooked.
It's not quite baked yet, but it
is like concrete
getting set, getting harder and
harder.
And it takes -- it takes more
and more power
to change what's been laid as
you go forward.
This is really -- even though
we're still
in the summer, we're still in
August, this
is a pretty critical period if
you look at
elections historically.
JUDY WOODRUFF: And I do want to
get to Hillary
Clinton.
But the polls, Tamara Keith, are
showing that
it's not just in the
battleground states where
Hillary Clinton is ahead, but
it's in states
that Mitt Romney and John McCain
won where
Donald Trump is having
difficulty right now.
TAMARA KEITH: Or where the
demographics have
changed a little bit since Mitt
Romney and
John McCain ran.
In a state like Georgia, where
it's suddenly
looking a little bit more
competitive, it
-- I think that to say that
Hillary Clinton
can compete in Georgia at this
point still
seems like a bridge farther than
a lot of
people are willing to go.
But North Carolina, for
instance, is a state
certainly where the Clinton
campaign believes
that they have a chance to win
this.
And if they can, that would be a
huge problem
for Donald Trump.
JUDY WOODRUFF: And, Susan, just
quickly, your
newspaper had a poll today
looking at millennials
that vote, young voters under
35.
SUSAN PAGE: And the historic
weakness by Donald
Trump among these younger
voters.
He's only getting 20 percent of
the vote of
millennials.
Now, they are the least reliable
voters by
age.
Older people are more likely to
turn out to
the polls.
But we have never seen a
candidate in modern
times have that poor a showing
of millennials.
And if that trend continues, it
will be the
third consecutive election where
Democrats
will have beaten the Republican
by double
digits among younger voters.
And if you look at the long-term
future of
this party, that starts to set
partisan preferences
in a way that's really dangerous
for the GOP.
JUDY WOODRUFF: So, Hillary
Clinton, Tamara
Keith, was out on the trail
today with Vice
President Biden, working-class
Scranton, Pennsylvania,
on a day when Donald Trump is
out hammering
away on national security, on
ISIS.
Is she as vulnerable as Donald
Trump makes
her out to be?
He at one point said, she's not
capable of
handling ISIS.
TAMARA KEITH: He also implied
that she may
not be healthy enough to handle
ISIS.
There was a little bit of that
in there.
This is an area where sometimes
she doesn't
talk about it with the urgency
that he talks
about it, and that might give
him a little
bit of space.
But many polls are now showing
that people
believe Hillary Clinton does
have the temperament
on foreign policy in a way that
some voters
have concerns about Donald
Trump.
JUDY WOODRUFF: But he does come
back to that
language, Susan, time and again,
suggesting
that she just -- she wouldn't be
capable,
she wouldn't be strong enough to
stand up
to something like ISIS.
SUSAN PAGE: And if you want to
look at the
biggest problem Hillary Clinton
has, it's
that this is an electorate that
wants change,
wants change in terms of the
battle against
terrorism, wants change in terms
of the growing
equality in the U.S. system.
And so there is an argument to
be made against
Hillary Clinton, who is, as
Donald Trump would
say, a third term of Barack
Obama.
The question is, is Donald Trump
the person
who can prosecute the case
against Hillary
Clinton?
JUDY WOODRUFF: And, Tamara, what
do we think
about that?
Is -- because if he does -- say
he gives a
speech about ISIS every other
day between
now and the election.
Can that -- is that the kind of
thing that
can move voters?
TAMARA KEITH: Well, I mean, he
would have
to do just those.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Speeches.
TAMARA KEITH: He would have to
do just the
teleprompter, and not the big
raucous rallies
where he gets -- that, really,
they fuel him
and they give him a ton of
energy.
But at those raucous rallies, a
more nuanced
argument about whether the Iraq
pullout should
have happened at the pace that
it did becomes
Barack Obama founded ISIS, and
then becomes,
you know, a day of doubling
down, and then
a day of tweeting about sarcasm.
JUDY WOODRUFF: And, just
quickly, Susan, it's
not just that.
It's -- he will keep coming back
to the e-mails,
the 30,000 e-mails.
He brings it up every chance he
gets.
SUSAN PAGE: That's right.
And that is a vulnerability for
Hillary Clinton.
But her attack on him is that he
doesn't have
the temperament or the
disposition to handle
the job of president.
And especially when it comes to
the issue
of commander in chief, that is
an argument
that has gotten some traction
with American
voters.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Susan Page,
Tamara Keith, thank
you both very much, 85 days to
go.
(LAUGHTER)
TAMARA KEITH: Countdown clock.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Stay with us.
Coming up on the "NewsHour": Are
we safer
now than we were on 9/11?; and
photography
that makes us rethink privacy in
a world full
of cameras.
But, first: The years-long fight
to control
Syria's largest city, Aleppo,
grinds on, with
civilians stuck between rebel
and government
forces.
Last week, more than two dozen
Syrian physicians
there wrote a letter to
President Obama urging
him to take action to end the
carnage.
Only 35 physicians remain to
serve more than
300,000 people.
They wrote, in part, because
they themselves
are under attack, the people
whose mission
it is to help the civilians
caught in the
crossfire.
And they are hit in the places
that should
be safest, hospitals and other
medical facilities.
Special correspondent Marcia
Biggs reports
now from Southern Turkey near
the Syrian border.
And a warning: This story
contains images
that may upset some viewers.
MARCIA BIGGS: It is a war crime
to target
medical facilities, but, in
Syria, bombs rain
down on hospitals, doctors and
patients.
Just in the last few weeks,
pro-government
forces bombed a maternity
hospital in Idlib,
supported by Save the Children.
And airstrikes hit six hospitals
around Aleppo.
Nurses gathered babies from
their incubators,
the strike narrowly missing
their ward.
Rami Kalazi is no stranger to
airstrikes like
these.
DR.
RAMI KALAZI, Forced to Leave
Syria: I was
sleeping here, and my colleague
is here.
And the attack happened.
We came out alive.
I don't know how.
MARCIA BIGGS: Kalazi was one of
Aleppo's last
remaining doctors.
We caught up with him in Turkey.
He said he believes these
hospitals were targeted.
DR.
RAMI KALAZI: They are the artery
of life in
the city.
Can you imagine a life in city
without hospitals?
Who will treat your kids?
Who will make the surgeries for
the injured
people?
So, they are targeting these
hospitals because
they know, if these hospitals
were completely
destroyed, the life will be
completely destroyed.
MARCIA BIGGS: Eastern Aleppo had
already suffered
a massive blow in April, when Al
Quds Hospital,
supported by Doctors Without
Borders, and
the city's main pediatric
hospital, was destroyed
by two consecutive airstrikes.
DR.
RAMI KALAZI: It was a very hard
night.
Every one or two hour, we had an
airstrike,
and we had to treat some injured
people.
MARCIA BIGGS: Soon he realized
the full extent
of the damage, more than 50
people dead, including
six members of hospital staff.
DR.
RAMI KALAZI: They were all
friends.
So, it was emotionally so hard,
because you
are treating your friend.
You know how hard is that.
And you see that he is in
danger, he may not
live, he may not survive.
It was a horrible night.
MARCIA BIGGS: One of them,
35-year-old Waseem
Maaz, seen here on that fateful
night, was
a beloved pediatrician, one of
only two in
the entire city.
He was just beginning his shift.
Moments later, disaster.
What has Syria lost there?
DR.
RAMI KALAZI: Can you imagine,
when you have
more than 300,000 people in your
city, and
you have only two pediatricians,
and you have
lost one?
Can you imagine how much the
loss is big?
MARCIA BIGGS: According to
Physicians for
Human Rights, there have been
over 375 strikes
against medical facilities and
doctors in
Syria since the revolution
began.
Their report stipulates that
over 90 percent
of those came at the hands of
the Syrian regime
and its allies.
WIDNEY BROWN, Director of
Programs, Physicians
for Human Rights: Syria had a
very sophisticated
health care infrastructure,
hospitals that
are multistoried, very
well-equipped, very
large, very well-marked.
You don't make a mistake of just
hitting that
hospital, and you certainly
don't do it multiple
times.
This is absolutely a deliberate
strategy by
the Syrian government.
MARCIA BIGGS: Widney Brown is
director of
programs for the Physicians for
Human Rights,
which maintains that the
destruction of hospitals
by President Assad is being used
as a weapon
of war.
WIDNEY BROWN: When you target a
hospital,
you don't just destroy that
brick-and-mortar
structure.
You destroy actually a safe
place that people
can go for lifesaving aid.
When you kill a doctor, you
don't just kill
that one individual.
You actually kill all the people
he or she
would have saved.
MARCIA BIGGS: Brown says medical
professionals
are specifically targeted for
detention, torture,
and even murder by the Syrian
regime; 750
have been killed in the last
five years, like
46-year-old cardiologist Hasan
al-Araj, whose
car was hit by an airstrike.
WIDNEY BROWN: We believe that
they are being
persecuted because they can
actually give
eyewitness testimony about all
of the crimes
being committed by the Syrian
government.
When they say a chemical weapon
was used,
they are incredibly credible.
MARCIA BIGGS: Hospitals are
often hit multiple
times as part of what is called
a double-tap
strategy.
Planes will circle back after
hitting a target,
once first-responders have
arrived on scene,
as shown on this video, to
target those delivering
aid to the wounded.
Despite the risks, hospitals
still continue
to run.
Here, Dr. Kalazi sweeps up after
one of the
more than 20 strikes his
hospital suffered,
creating a new normal for an
already ravaged
community.
DR.
RAMI KALAZI: All the hospitals
in Aleppo City
have been bombed, all of them.
There's no exceptions.
The first thing you will think
in is looking
for your colleagues.
Are they still alive or dead?
Will I see, for example, of an
arm for my
colleague or a leg, or I will
see a body,
or half of a body, or will I see
him alive?
You don't know.
We announce among the patients
that it's now
risky to stay in the hospital,
so please find
safe places or go as fast as you
can to your
homes.
MARCIA BIGGS: What about the
critical patients?
DR.
RAMI KALAZI: They stay in the
hospital.
And some of them died during
these attacks.
MARCIA BIGGS: So there's just
really nowhere
to go?
DR.
RAMI KALAZI: No.
MARCIA BIGGS: You would think
that the hospital
would be the safe place, the
safe zone.
DR.
RAMI KALAZI: But, in Syria,
there is nothing
safe.
MARCIA BIGGS: Kalazi told us the
memory that
haunts him the most is of a
family of seven
pulled from under the rubble.
WIDNEY BROWN: Only one survived,
only one
child.
He was 3 years old.
I was completely freezed.
I just cried.
When I see a child, it's so
hard, because
he's a child.
He's innocent.
He's made nothing to be punished
for.
MARCIA BIGGS: Amidst so much
despair, Dr.
Kalazi's wife gave birth to a
baby boy just
over a year ago.
DR.
RAMI KALAZI: We decided to have
a baby, because
it's like a new hope, you know?
But we decided to stay in
Aleppo, because
we have a mission to complete.
We are physicians.
We are humans.
And this is our city.
MARCIA BIGGS: A few months ago,
his hospital
and his home were hit on the
same day.
Here he is in this video with
his wife and
infant son surveying the damage.
Kalazi was on R&R outside the
city last month
when government forces blocked
the last road
to Aleppo, making it not only
impossible for
him to return, but for the
people to get desperately
needed food and medical aid.
WIDNEY BROWN: What we have in
Syria are two
stories.
It's quick deaths by being
bombed when you're
a civilian, and it's the slow
death of starvation.
And they are facing this as the
U.N. Security
Council does nothing.
MARCIA BIGGS: Do you ever feel
abandoned?
DR.
RAMI KALAZI: From the world,
yes.
From the international
community, yes, because
they can do, but they don't want
to.
No one wants to help us from the
governments.
We don't know why.
MARCIA BIGGS: But halfway around
the world,
these American doctors do want
to help.
DR.
ZAHER SAHLOUL, Syrian American
Medical Society:
So, you have doctors who send,
for example,
X-rays.
MARCIA BIGGS: Drs. Zaher Sahloul
and Samer
Attar represent the Syrian
American Medical
Society, which connects doctors
in the U.S.
with Kalazi's hospital and
others all over
Syria.
DR.
ZAHER SAHLOUL: They can move the
camera from
a patient to patient, and
describe the patient
to me.
They can look at -- put the
camera on the
monitor, so I can see the vital
signs.
I can communicate with the
doctor also, and
they will tell me what's
happening.
So, that way, you are there, but
through this
very simple technology.
DR.
RAMI KALAZI: You are not alone
in treating
your person -- your patients.
And you have this emotional
support.
MARCIA BIGGS: Sahloul and Attar
traveled last
month to Aleppo to show
solidarity with their
Syrian colleagues.
DR.
SAMER ATTAR, Syrian American
Medical Society:
You definitely feel targeted.
Everyone feels targeted.
A missile lands somewhere within
the vicinity
of the hospital, and you feel
the foundations
of the hospital shake.
There was one moment I was
knocked off my
feet, and your ears are ringing,
but people
just get back up and go back to
work.
They're staying out of a sense
of obligation
and duty to help the helpless.
They are heroically and
selflessly risking
their lives.
MARCIA BIGGS: They say some
hospitals have
even moved their emergency rooms
underground
to protect the patients, who
come in droves.
DR.
SAMER ATTAR: There were just so
many people.
It was just child after child
after child
after child.
And you just keep saying to
yourself, just,
please, God, when will this
trail of injured
end?
MARCIA BIGGS: Are you angry by
the lack of
response?
DR.
SAMER ATTAR: Well, of course
you're angry.
It's five years on, close to
half-a-million
killed and 12 million displaced.
And those numbers are still
rising.
And now we have a city of
300,000 people that
are being sieged and starved and
bombed to
death, with the international
community sitting
idly by.
And you have children who are
burning tires
to create their own no-fly zone.
That's embarrassing.
That's shameful.
MARCIA BIGGS: The doctors
testified last week
at a U.N. special session on
Aleppo, where
they conveyed messages from
their Syrian colleagues,
treating babies exposed to
chlorine gas and
toddlers with spines shredded
decimated by
shrapnel, wrapping tiny bodies
in white shrouds.
After five long years, one
21-year-old nurse
knows now not to ask for too
much.
DR.
SAMER ATTAR: I expected her to
talk about
no-fly zone, or peace, or all of
these things.
And she said: I have a patient.
Her name is Shahed.
She is 10 years old.
Is there any way that they can
intervene to
evacuate the patient, so her
life can be saved?
Because her mom comes every day,
and she tells
her, and she tells her, I would
like to take
you home, so you can ride your
bicycle.
And this is what she wanted from
the Security
Council.
MARCIA BIGGS: While the siege on
Aleppo was
partially broken by rebel
soldiers just over
a week ago, the last road in and
out of the
city is still far too dangerous
to travel.
So, Rami Kalazi remains on the
outside looking
in, desperate to get back to his
beloved hometown.
DR.
RAMI KALAZI: And any time Aleppo
is not besieged,
I will go back to Aleppo, even
for a visit.
It's my lovely place.
MARCIA BIGGS: It's still your
lovely place.
DR.
RAMI KALAZI: Yes, it's my lovely
place, because
I feel that I'm born to be here
to help these
people.
MARCIA BIGGS: A place where no
one is safe
and saving lives can get you
killed.
For the "PBS NewsHour," I'm
Marcia Biggs in
Gaziantep, Southern Turkey.
JUDY WOODRUFF: And now a look at
the current
state of security inside the
U.S.
As we approach the 15th
anniversary of 9/11,
journalist Steven Brill spent
the past year
looking into how the country has
changed since
that terrible day, what's been
spent and what
gaps still exist.
His article, "Are We Any
Safer?", appears
in the latest issue of "The
Atlantic."
And I recently sat down with him
and asked
him what he learned.
STEVEN BRILL, "The Atlantic": In
a nutshell,
what I concluded was, the way we
have responded
to the terrorist attacks, to
9/11, which,
you know, changed everything, is
sort of a
microcosm of what we are as a
country today.
A lot of it was heroic,
ingenious, people
going beyond the cause of duty,
doing really
great things.
And then a lot of it was
actually quite the
opposite, a lot of Beltway
boondoggles, billions
of dollars wasted because
government contractors
promised technology and
solutions that they
couldn't produce.
And we have struggled as a
country with dealing
with the notion of this new kind
of risk.
The idea, as President Bush
explained, after
9/11, of never again, we're
never going to
have a terrorist attack again,
that's just
unrealistic in today's world.
JUDY WOODRUFF: You clearly give
the government
-- and it spans several
administrations, two
administrations -- credit for
getting some
things right, as you just said,
but...
STEVEN BRILL: A lot of things
right, and a
lot of unsung people, tens of
thousands of
people going to work every day
at the Department
of Homeland Security, the FBI,
places like
TSA, the Border Patrol, really
obsessed with
the job of keeping us safe.
And the only time we notice them
is when something
goes wrong.
And that makes it a tough job.
On the other hand, a lot of it
went back to
politics as usual.
Every small town that you can
think of made
a request for government grants
for homeland
security, for everything ranging
from routine
fire trucks to fish tanks in a
police station.
So, there are a lot of abuses.
JUDY WOODRUFF: I was struck
because, early
on in the piece, you say, yes,
we are safer
than we were on 9/11, safer
against the kind
of threat we faced on 9/11.
STEVEN BRILL: Right.
JUDY WOODRUFF: But the threat
has changed.
STEVEN BRILL: Right.
JUDY WOODRUFF: And that's what
the government
is -- all of us are grappling
with right now.
STEVEN BRILL: We have done a lot
to batten
down the hatches, to make us
safer, at the
airports, at the ports, all over
the place.
But the threats have multiplied,
the threats
around the world.
Our defenses are much stronger.
The offense has multiplied and
is much stronger.
And it's more difficult because,
unlike the
kind of coordinated,
orchestrated attack that
we faced on 9/11, where people
were communicating,
money was exchanging hands, that
kind of stuff
which we can now track, if some
lone wolf
in his basement is online...
JUDY WOODRUFF: Right.
STEVEN BRILL: ... and he can go
into a gun
store in this country and buy an
assault weapon,
and he shoots up a shopping mall
and yells
out, you know, something in
Arabic, that makes
him a terrorist, and it scares
us mightily.
And that's not something we can
really prevent,
other than doing something about
assault weapons.
JUDY WOODRUFF: So, how -- that's
what interested
me so much in this piece was you
look at one
thing after another that the
government did,
some of it successfully.
But, still, you have this
undefined threat
out there, some of which, as you
say, it's
a lone wolf.
It's somebody who may be just
mentally unstable
who decides to adopt the
terrorism...
(CROSSTALK)
STEVEN BRILL: Exactly.
And there are some non-lone wolf
threats,
some kind of more orchestrated
threats, that
were in the headlines right
after 9/11 that
basically fell out of the
headlines, and therefore
fell off our radar, and,
frankly, that the
government hasn't paid enough
attention to.
The best example is the
bioterror attack.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Bioterrorism.
STEVEN BRILL: Right after 9/11,
with the anthrax
attacks, that's all we thought
of.
The technology that we tried to
develop 15
years ago still hasn't been
developed that
would warn us in the right way
of a bio attack.
We have not done enough to
protect ourselves
from dirty bombs.
You can still go to hospitals
and other industrial
sites all over this country, and
maybe have
to break a tiny little padlock,
if that, to
get ahold of radiological
material that you
can mix with an easily available
explosive
and create a dirty bomb.
JUDY WOODRUFF: But why hasn't
something like
that been addressed?
STEVEN BRILL: Because we tend to
go after
yesterday's headline.
Our attention shifts.
And we don't -- when you say
that everything's
a priority, if you have 10 or 12
high priorities,
none of them becomes a priority,
except if
it's in the news, if it's in the
headlines,
if it's part of a congressional
hearing, maybe.
So, we haven't done the job we
need to do
of really assessing all the
threats rationally
and having a discussion with the
American
people that says, we can't deal
with everything,
we have to have priorities, and
some things
are going to slip through the
cracks, and,
by the way, there are going to
be terrorist
attacks, not of the kind we had
on 9/11.
People are never going to be
able to hijack
a plane because of the TSA,
because we have
fortified cockpit doors in
airlines.
We have done a lot of things to
deal with
that, but we haven't done much
to deal with
trains or ferry boats, for
example.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Because of our
political system,
as you say, it's hard for our
leaders to -- political
leaders to say candidly to the
American people
that there will always be a
threat out there,
that you cannot completely...
STEVEN BRILL: President Obama
has tried to
do that.
And every time he's even in a
subtle way tried
to do that, where he has said --
and, indeed,
his Department of Homeland
Security has implemented
really important mitigation
measures, really
important, you know, recovery
measures if
there's an attack.
There was a drill in Boston just
a few months
before the bombing there.
And when they did a report about
that drill
and how that had really helped
to save lives
after the marathon bombing, he
was attacked
by Senator Coburn for putting
too much emphasis
on mitigation, and not enough on
prevention.
Now, that, to me, is the
equivalent of saying,
why do you have ambulances on
call?
Why don't you do something about
crime and
traffic safety?
Well, you try to prevent crime
and you try
to prevent car accidents, but
you have emergency
rooms, you have ambulances.
You acknowledge the fact that
you're not going
to prevent all traffic
accidents.
We are not going to prevent all
terrorism,
especially if you define it as
someone being
able to get an assault weapon,
which you can
do in this country, and claim to
be loyal
to ISIS or some organization
like that.
JUDY WOODRUFF: What would you
say to the next
leader of this country, the next
president
about what most needs to be done
to make this
country...
(CROSSTALK)
STEVEN BRILL: Well, the first
thing that needs
not to be done is to declare war
on Muslims
or Islam, because that's exactly
what those
terrorists want.
They want this to be the
apocalyptic, end-of-all-worlds
war between them and us.
And President Bush didn't take
the bait, and
President Obama has resisted
taking that bait.
Donald Trump campaigns on that.
And it almost makes you think --
in fact,
it makes me think that ISIS
would love to
have someone like Trump be
president, because
they would get the fulfillment
of their dream,
which is to have the great
confrontation with
Western civilization.
The second thing is to keep
educating the
country.
While doing everything we can to
prevent terrorism,
keep educating the country to
the reality
that there are going to be some
attacks, and
that doesn't mean it's the
apocalypse.
It doesn't mean we're weak.
Saying there are going to be
attacks doesn't
mean you're throwing in the
towel, but it
means we have to be realistic.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Well, it's
certainly a provocative
piece.
It's one that reminds us of how
complex the
challenges are, and they don't
get any simpler
as time goes by.
STEVEN BRILL: Thanks.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Steven Brill.
Are we any safer than we were on
9/11?
Thank you very much.
STEVEN BRILL: You're welcome.
JUDY WOODRUFF: A photography
museum is reopening
in a sleek new home in New York
City, with
an exhibition to make you think
twice about
all the cameras that surround
us.
Jeffrey Brown has the story.
JEFFREY BROWN: A stark message
stops visitors
in their tracks at the threshold
of the International
Center of Photography's new
home: "By entering
this area, you consent to being
photographed,
filmed and/or otherwise
recorded, and surrender
the right to the use of such
material throughout
the universe in perpetuity."
And that's what the museum's
first exhibition
in its brand-new space in Lower
Manhattan
explores, the changing role of
privacy in
a world inundated with
surveillance and oversharing.
PAULINE VERMARE, Associate
Curator, Public,
Private, Secret: What is your
secret life?
How can you keep it secret?
I think that's one of the keys
of this exhibition
is really that, keeping your
privacy, but
also making sure that your
secret life remains
your secret life.
JEFFREY BROWN: Pauline Vermare
is the associate
curator of Public, Private,
Secret, a mix
of visual media, modern and
historical.
There's this 1946 Yale Joel
photograph of
a couple through a two-way
mirror for a series
in "LIFE" magazine, and more
contemporary
surveillance art by Jill Magid,
who captured
herself on surveillance cameras,
and Merry
Alpern, who secretly shot
through the bathroom
window of a seedy sex club for
her "Dirty
Windows" series.
The museum itself has come a
long way from
its 1974 beginnings in a
Manhattan mansion
under the direction of famed
Hungarian photographer
Cornell Capa.
Since then, the world of
photography has changed.
MARK LUBELL, Director,
International Center
of Photography: It is the most
Democratic
format.
It is in the hands of all of us.
We all are now visually
communicating.
JEFFREY BROWN: Mark Lubell is
the current
director of the museum, known as
the ICP.
He's overseen an institutional
shift, from
photojournalism and art
photography to an
embrace of today's digital media
landscape,
where cell phone cameras are
ubiquitous.
MARK LUBELL: The big difference
is, it used
to be a few people taking images
that went
out to millions.
And now it's millions and
millions of people
going out to millions and
millions of people.
I think that's a seismic shift
in the medium,
and it's something that we
should be looking
at and exploring.
JEFFREY BROWN: In the inaugural
exhibition,
that means a sometimes jarring
juxtaposition
of images.
PAULINE VERMARE: We start with
historical
precedents, and everything is
thrown together.
It's not like there's a
hierarchy.
Everything is at the same level.
JEFFREY BROWN: A lineup of
mid-20th century
mug shots taken by unknown
photographers sits
just beneath portraits of four
Muslim women,
prisoners in a concentration
camp during the
Algerian War.
They were forced to pose without
their veils.
In our own time, people expose
themselves.
WOMAN: I'm not gay.
MAN: I am gay.
WOMAN: I am so gay.
JEFFREY BROWN: Offering up
private thoughts
online, in the form of video
diaries available
to anyone.
Artist Natalie Bookchin sifted
through hundreds
of those and created an
installation titled
"Testament."
NATALIE BOOKCHIN, Artist: I'm
choreographing
these moments and organizing
them to try to
make some sense out of them.
I think that there's a sense,
first of all,
that this stuff is junk, right,
that it's
throwaway, that we shouldn't
watch it, that
it's all just narcissistic, and
that it's
kids that are doing silly things
with their
phone.
And what I'm trying to show in
this work,
that it's not just kids, that
it's like -- it's
sort of people.
You know, people are doing this,
old people,
young people, men, women.
JEFFREY BROWN: We see and hear
some subjects
alone, others in a kind of
chorus focused
on a particular theme.
One of her pieces examined
people who had
lost their jobs in the
recession.
NATALIE BOOKCHIN: I wanted in
the work to
both show the way that sort of
people were
alone, in some way trying to
engage in a political
discussion or a social
discussion, something
that just happened that's really
bad, because
the economy is crashing and
people are losing
their jobs.
But then, at the same time,
people are isolated
and alone, and they're speaking
to themselves.
JEFFREY BROWN: The culture of
celebrity is
also on display in many
different forms.
Patrick McMullan's Facebook
collage from this
year's New York Fashion Week.
A series of Andy Warhol
Polaroids framed on
mirrors, so you're part of the
subject's 15
minutes of fame too.
And then there's the placement
of this untitled
self-portrait by famed art
photographer Cindy
Sherman.
This is art.
She's shown in every museum in
the world.
PAULINE VERMARE: Yes.
Yes.
JEFFREY BROWN: And then you have
Kim Kardashian
selfies, a book about selfies.
Somehow, they belong together,
you're saying,
in our world?
PAULINE VERMARE: Well,
specifically, this
image, in fact, by Cindy
Sherman, because
she's pretending to be a star,
you know, hunted
by the paparazzo, this is what
we're talking
about, that tension and the
resistance.
And this is -- our show -- this
show is generally
about the resistance, or the
opposite of resistance,
which is what Kim Kardashian
does.
JEFFREY BROWN: Which is, take my
picture.
PAULINE VERMARE: Just take it,
and here it
is for you.
JEFFREY BROWN: The museum also
wants us to
question the very definition of
photography
and who's a photographer.
MARK LUBELL: What I do on my
phone is not
photography.
I am creating images.
JEFFREY BROWN: We're not taking
photos on
our phones?
What are we doing?
MARK LUBELL: Well, we're
communicating.
We're communicating.
But we're communicating using
the image.
I want to look at where society
is today.
The thematic of sort of
understanding the
world that we are today, and
looking at it,
and examining it, and debating
it is central
to ICP's DNA.
And I think that's why the show
makes a lot
of sense.
JEFFREY BROWN: The exhibition
Public, Private,
Secret is on view through early
January 2017.
From New York, I'm Jeffrey Brown
for the "PBS
NewsHour."
JUDY WOODRUFF: On the "NewsHour"
online right
now: A columnist on our Making
Sense page
JUDY WOODRUFF: On the "NewsHour"
online right
now: A columnist on our Making
Sense page
takes a look at so-called
donor-advised funds,
which he says give all the tax
benefits of
charitable giving, without any
obligation
that the money is actually used
for charity.
You can read more on our Web
site, PBS.org/NewsHour.
And that's the "NewsHour" for
tonight.
I'm Judy Woodruff.
Join us online and again right
here tomorrow
evening.
For all of us at the "PBS
NewsHour," thank
you, and good night.
For all of us at the "PBS
NewsHour," thank
you, and good night.